.\" Manpage for account(1).
.\" To see this page formatted: man -l share/man/man1/account.1
.TH ACCOUNT 1 "May 2026" "scripts" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
account \- identity foundation for the scripts collection

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B account
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B account
is the identity foundation of the scripts collection. Every other
script in the collection is built
.I on top of
identity \(em a system user, a configured remote endpoint, an SSH
key, a GPG key. As a result,
.B account
calls no other script in the collection at runtime; the only
declared dependency is
.BR rpk (1)
for deployment metadata, never invoked at runtime.

.B account
manages local identity (the current Unix user's GPG/SSH keys,
git config, sudoers entry) and remote-account topology (the set
of accounts this host has registered, and how to reach them).

.SH SUBCOMMANDS
The full subcommand surface is exposed via
.B account help
and grouped as follows:

.TP
.B local account commands
.B init,
.B identity,
.B admin,
.B username,
.B platform,
.B fqdn / hostname / domain.

.TP
.B user related commands
.B create-user,
.B delete-user,
.B add-user.

.TP
.B gpg related commands
.B gpg-secret-keys,
.B gpg-public-keys,
.B gpg-encrypt,
.B gpg-decrypt,
.B gpg-export-secret-key,
.B gpg-export-public-key,
.B gpg-export-owner-trust,
.B gpg-fingerprint,
.B gpg-delete-key.

.TP
.B ssh related commands
.B ssh-export-secret-key,
.B ssh-export-public-key,
.B ssh-import-public-key,
.B ssh-import-known-host.

.TP
.B account maintenance commands
.B insert
.RI < account >,
.B remove
.RI < account >,
.B list,
.B has,
.B has-gpg-key,
.B has-ssh-key.

.TP
.B account configuration commands
.B cache-home,
.B config-home,
.B data-home.

.TP
.B remote execution commands
.B exec,
.B online,
.B status.

.TP
.B host commands
.B hosts.

.TP
.B file transfer
.B put,
.B get.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Defaults to
.IR ~/.config .
account stores its config under
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/account/ .
.TP
.B XDG_CACHE_HOME
Defaults to
.IR ~/.cache .
.TP
.B SELF_DEBUG
When set, enables shell tracing
.RB ( "set -vx" ).
.TP
.B SELF_QUIET
When set, suppresses informational output.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/account/gpg/
Per-account GPG public keys, named
.IR <account>.pub .
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/account/ssh/
Per-account SSH public keys, named
.IR <account>.pub .
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/account/slaves/<identity>
List of accounts registered as slaves of this identity.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B "non-zero"
Failure. The fatal-handler prints
.IR "account: fatal - <message>" .

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B account init
Bootstrap the local identity \(em generate GPG / SSH keys, set
sudoers, configure git.
.TP
.B account insert alice@example
Register
.I alice@example
as a remote account: copy the SSH key, fetch its GPG public key,
add it to the local
.IR slaves/<identity> .
.TP
.B "account exec alice@example -- account list"
Run
.B account list
on the remote host
.IR alice@example .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rpk (1),
.BR repo (1),
.BR config (1),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR ssh-keygen (1).

.SH BUGS
Report at
.UR https://github.com/nostra124/scripts/issues
.UE .
